## Pitch Kit 

There is an amazing digital platform for health planning in communities! The Garrett County Planning Tool (mygarrettcounty.com) is the first of its kind to successfully engage people in creating a county-wide Community Health Improvement Plan. The tool is adaptive based on community engagement by balancing what people most care about with the most current data available, making sustainable changes in the county possible. The tool is building a true culture of collaboration in Garrett County by changing the way people relate. Transparent dialogue between local health officials and the general public is beginning to restore trust in healthcare, and relationships are developing and deepening because of shared passions. With well over a quarter-million page views and over 2000 active planning partners, we believe that the Garrett County Planning Tool has the potential to change the way communities conduct strategic health planning.

Our goal is to continue customizing and maintaining this powerful community solution that directly impacts and improves health equity in the community. Measuring community engagement once thought of as an enigma in Health Planning has now become possible. In addition, latent data analysis provides valuable insights into the engaged participants helping planners to be even more responsive.

Utilizing a platform where everyone's voice can be heard is essential to understand the needs, concerns, and solutions that are often layered in complexity. This matters if we want to truly ensure equity in all areas of health for as many residents as possible. Extending the opportunity to every person in a community regardless of their position, socioeconomic status, or level of education helps to unify our collective voice and ensure everyone is heard. The ability of the people behind the Garrett County Planning Tool to inspire an entire county to rally around an attainable vision for the future speaks volumes. Specifically, of the innovation to provide the platform and the capacity of care that individuals demonstrate using mygarrettcounty.com. 

The tool is being replicated and successfully sustained in communities across the Nation. It creates linkages, especially in rural areas where timely information has traditionally been a challenge. It quickly disseminates information based on the unique features built into the tool enabling the community to meet needs like job placement, community events, volunteer opportunities, etc. 

We won't quit once the Community Health Improvement Plan is written, collaboratively. The tool is built to transform into a living digital dashboard where live updates, current statistics, and real-time communication abounds to measure the objectives set forth. Measurement is the key to any successful venture and nothing creates a stir like transparent numbers to keep all of us on our toes! This tool enables communities to reach their vision for an improved community, together. 

Viewing health with a broad lens and focusing on a culture of collaboration that empowers others and enables communities to improve equity and build capacity is the cornerstone of the Garrett County Planning Tool. As one approach to digital health planning that is wildly successful in an Appalachian community, mygarrettcounty.com is worth more than a look, it's the benchmark of community engagement that other communities should strive to emulate. We're so excited to share it and would be honored to help other communities successfully implement the Garrett County Planning Tool.
